--------------------------------------------
GENERAL OVERVIEW
--------------------------------------------

a project in Android Studio uses a file structure consisting of one or more module. The types of modules include:
    app modules
    library modules
    Google App Engine modules

there's also a top-level section "Gradle Scripts" that contains build files

an app module contains the following 3 folders:

    manifests: contains the AndroidManifest.xml file 
    java: the Kotlin / Java source files, including those for unit tests
    res: all non-code resources (strings, images)

the file hierarchy can be seen from the Project tab
note that the Android project structure on disk differs from this flattened representation
    there's a dropdown at the top left - change "Android" to "Project" to see the real file structure on disk

you can use gradle to build the app either from the command line or from within Android Studio 

Android Studio's build files for configuring Gradle are named build.gradle.kts (a kotlin file) or build.gradle (a Groovy file) 
    changes made using Android Studio's Gradle plugin will update these build files.
every project has one top-level build file for the whole project, and separate module-level build files for each module 

.apk is a file format used by the Android operating system for distributing / installing mobile apps 

with the build system you can build different versions of the same app with different configuration settings (like building for different markets).
    a single build can also be configured to produce multiple .apk files for different screen densities or CPU architectures.
    the build process also can perform resource-shrinking, where unused resources are removed from the packaged app or library dependencies 

build dependencies are specified by name in the module-level build script. 
    here you can declare module dependencies, remote binary dependencies, and local binary dependencies. 
    gradle will search & find these dependencies, & link them during the build. 

Android Studio configures Maven to use the Maven Central Repository by default. this configuration is specified in the top-level build file. 

during the build Android Studio also does linting, code inspections, and supports Java annotations 

--------------------------------------------
MANAGING YOUR PROJECT OVERVIEW
--------------------------------------------

modules are alot like plugins
    modules can use other modules as dependencies
    you can independently build, test, and debug each modjule

you can create a new module via File > New > New Module 

remember there are 3 types of modules: 

    app modules - contains the typical source code, resource files, a build file, and a manifest. 
        there are many types of app modules for different devices: Phone & Tablet, Automotive, Wear OS, Television, others

    feature modules - use for features that leverage "Play Feature Delivery", where users can use the app without installing it 
        these apps are served from google's servers. conceptually it's similar to a web page but it's more full featured like an app 

    library modules - just a container for code that can be imported by other modules (i.e. PaymentsUIShared) or even by other projects. 
        there are 3 types of library modules: 
            Android Library: can contain all file types found in a typical Android project except native C++ code. 
                compiles to an AAR (Android Archive) file 
            Android Native Library: like an Android Library but can also contain native C++ code. also compiles to an AAR 
            Java or Kotlin Library: contains only Kotlin or Java files. compiles to a JAR file 

        add this to build.gradle.kts in your app to link to a library module:

            dependencies {
                implementation(project(":my-library-module")) 
            }

modules are sometimes referred to as subprojects because gradle treats them as separate projects. 


the actual file structure of an app module looks more like this: 

    moduleName/
        build/                              contains build output 
        libs/                               private libraries
        src/ 
            androidTest/                    instrumentation tests that run on an Android device (functional tests...?)
            cpp/                            contains native C/C++ using the Java Native Interface (JNI)

            main/                           contains your main source files 
                java/
                kotlin/
                res/                        contains application resources like drawable images and UI strings 
                assets/                     contains files compiled into an apk without modification (i.e. textures, game data) 
                                                you can navigate this folder using the AssetsManager

            test/                           local tests that run on the host systems JVM 

        build.gradle.kts or build.gradle 

    build.gradle.kts or build.gradle        this defines build configurations that apply to all modules


to compile & build C/C++ code you need to install the NDK (Android Native Development Kit). read docs for more info 
    you add C/C++ code in the cpp directory. when you build this will be compiled into what they call a "native library" (it's not actually native...)
    Java / Kotlin code can then call the C/C++ functions using the Java Native Interface (JNI) 


--------------------------------------------
WRITING CODE 
--------------------------------------------

Android Studio has a tool called Vector Asset Studio accessed via click File > New > Vector Asset 
    it helps you create images supporting each screen density
    upload your own SVG or select a Google-provided material design icon

resources are organized into type-specific directories inside the module's res/ directory. 
    you can add different versions of files for different devices

Resources in your final app file can come from three sources:

    the main source set (generally located in src/main/res/)
    build variant source sets
    Android libraries (AARs)

when all resources from each source set or library are unique, they're all added into the final app. 
    If there are two or more matching versions of the same resource, build tools select the version to keep based on the following priority:
        build variant > build type > product flavor > main source set > library dependencies


--------------------------------------------
RUN, DEBUG, AND TEST THE APP
--------------------------------------------

to view details about the build process select View > Tool Windows > Build or click the hammer icon on the left 

unit tests are located in /src/test/java/
    these tests run on the local JVM 

instrumented tests are located at /src/androidTest/java/
    these sound are integration and functional UI tests. they run on a hardware device or emulator
    instrumented tests are compiled into a separate .apk, and have their own manifest file
        the manifest is auto-generated, but you can create one at /src/androidTest/AndroidManifest.xml and it will be merged with the generated one

before running any tests make sure the project is synchronized with Gradle by clicking Sync Project button 
to run all tests in a directory or file, right click it and select "Run" 

to launch the emulator in a separate window go to Settings > Tools > Emulator > uncheck "Launch in a tool window"