1) start with about 9 strips of bacon (maybe half a pack or so?)
    infact... you could copy pierre & put 4 or so in the soup pot & another 5 in a separate saute pan 
2) remove the bacon, and drain off about half of the bacon fat. or just leave the fat in the soup pot if you only put 4 in there. 
    add about a tablespoon of butter (maybe a bit more) and melt it down 
3) you'll use red onions apparently. I'm gona try 2... lady recommends 1, dice recommends 3. pierre actually used 3. try & see which makes sense 
    sautee the onion in the bacon fat / butter 
    do this on medium / medium high heat (6.5 on my stove) for a little under 5 minutes
3) you'll add in flour now. you have less grease and more onion than the lady in the video. 
    but she used 1/3rd cup flour, while dice suggest using half a cup. 
    again try & see what works. 
    the amount of fat I used was not enough to make a rue with... study rue making. how much does it matter? 
4) now add yucon gold potatoes, broth, & milk / cream into pot. 
    cut potatoes into cubes (need to be smaller than an inch cubes)
    this recipe is different than chef pierres, it wants the milk / cream added before cooking. dice suggests this is preferred in this soup 
        but not in the tomato soup apparently. who really knows 
    she used 2 cups of milk and 1/3rd cup of heavy cream. but dice suggest using 2/3rds cup heavy cream along w/ 2 cups milk. 
        maybe compromise and use half a cup. although.. unlike the lady you took out the bacon fat and used less butter, so this is a trade off. 
    
    add enough liquid to cover the vegetables (as pierre says) 
    
    also the lady didn't use leeks, but you could use leeks. use just under half the leek for this recipe ... you already have 2 onions. 
    and pierre uses celery too 
    could maybe use more leek and 1 onion - you'd use 1.8 leeks and 1 onion - but that's an experiment for another day. dice seem to prefer more onions. 
    pierre says 1 bunch of celery & 2 leeks - again makes sense, pierre is getting the amounts right. 

5) she also added 1.5 tsp fo salt and 1 tsp of pepper into the pot 
    this is a good baseline, but taste will really determine 
    dice indicate 1 tsp salt and 2/3rds tsp of pepper. though if you're using chicken stock you can just rely on that for salt probably 

6) she also adds ancho chile powder in, but I can come up with a better 'secret spice' to add. 
    dice indicate: Smoked Paprika - Smoky, Spicy, Sweet. makes sense actually, she said ancho chile powder had the same attributes 
    use 4/10ths of a tsp, apparently 

7) bring to a boil and cook for a bit 
    she suggested 10 minutes... dice said 16, pierre only reached a boil i think. try them & see which works best 

8) reduce heat & cook 
    she said simmer for 30 minutes, 
    assuming you did the dice method with the 16 minute boil... try low heat (like 1) for about 50 minutes 
    pierre also used low heat for a while, like 45 minutes 

9) puree about half the soup. people like chunks in this soup ...
    problem is... if I use the leeks, celery, & 3 onions... that needs to be pureed. 
    pierre added his potatoes separately... I may just take some potatoes out, puree, & add them back in. 

10) she suggests adding sour cream, but I don't want to do this. some people put it on top... but I don't want it. 
    I think I'd rather do something else. maybe pierres corn mix 
    add bacon with it, either on top or on side. 

another suggested random spice to add at some point (not sure where) - Garam Masala - Aromatic, Floral, Savory, Spicy, Sweet, Warm
    Garam masala is a spice blend widely used in Indian cuisine, from curries and lentil dishes to soups. 
    Whole spices of cinnamon, mace, peppercorns, coriander seeds, cumin seeds, and cardamon pods are toasted in a pan to release 
    their aromatic flavors, then ground to a powder.

some people also use dijon mustard with the soup, apparently - 1 tablespoon in the batch. try it at some point 

you can also add some chives to it at the end, and maybe some sort of cheese 

so ingredient list: 
    9 strips of bacon 
    butter 
    1-3 red onions (experiment with the amounts, I like less onion)
    1/3rd cup flour 
    1.5 cloves garlic (not much) 
    5 large yucon gold potatoes 
    2 leeks 
    1 celery bunch 
    chicken stock to cover vegetables 
    2 cups milk 
    1/3 OR 2/3 cup cream (matter of preference - considering you're using less bacon fat & butter... go with a little more, 1/2 or 2/3rds probably)
    salt / pepper 
    4/10ths tsp smoked paprika (recommended) OR 1 tsp garam masala (also good)
        OR a mix of: cinnamon, mace, coriander seeds, cumin seeds, cardamon pods - toasted & crushed maybe? (i.e. homemade graham masala)
        OR ancho chile powder 1/4th tsp (the lady recommended this but the paprika or garam masala will be better)

improvements x1: 
    -figure out how to work rue into the recipe, i don't think I had enough grease in beginning we'll see 
    -2 tablespoons Fresh Thyme & Sage chopped <- I didn't add this. is he calling for 2 tbsp each or combined? 
    -he wanted 2 cups leaks but I just put 2 leeks in. it seemed to work but who knows, I think the dice told me 2 leeks. 
    -didn't stick to the exact cooking temperatures... but it seemed ok 
    -need something to go with it - maybe the right cracker, the right cheese, the bacon bits on top... 
    -need to get the salt and pepper right. didn't put enough pepper in this time (though I thought I tasted it)
    -you added too much smoked paprika, and it's a bit odd that you're using bacon grease + smoked paprika. 
        maybe you could just use bacon grease? figure this out. 
        you could use both...
        nice thing about the paprika is you can then add extra cream in instead of the bacon grease 
        infact i could even justify just going with paprika so that i can use more cream 
        maybe try the different approaches & see which is better. 
        scores: 
            just bacon grease: 57 
            *mix: 57 - purpose is not to allow more cream apparently, but just to enhance the flavor more I guess? twice these two options have tied 
            just paprika + more cream: 31
            other: 17 
            mix wins by a hair apparently

types of cheeses this can be served with: 
    1) Scamorza Cheese - More like a cousin of mozzarella, scamorza is made in the same way as mozzarella but is a drier, firmer cheese.
    2) Abondance Cheese - It has a strong smell and an intensely fruity, buttery and hazelnut flavour, with the balance of acidity and sweetness, followed by a lingering aftertaste.
    3) Manchego Cheese -  if you can't or won't eat this cheese, then the best replacements are Pecorino Romano, asiago, Monterey Jack, Parmesan, Comté, or mozzarella.
    4) Taleggio Cheese - The first alternative to Taleggio that we would recommend is Brie
    5) Gouda Cheese <- first one i've heard of 