in general cut ingredients small so they're tenderized during the short cooking time. you can also somewhat precook them

toasting the couscous is optional

I think I prefer to bring the stock to a boil before adding it to the couscous 

ratio of couscous to broth is somewhere between 1:1 and 1:1.5. Maybe try 1/1.33 for now? 

And you want to get the broth to almost exactly 212F (boiling) before cutting heat / adding couscous
    then you let the couscous sit there about 6 minutes until it's ready apparently 


___________
MY EXPERIMENTS: 
these are just the base ingredients, you should add more to them to flesh out the recipe:

Classic Lemon Zucchini Couscous:
1)  core ingredients: 
    lemon juice
    zucchini
    cashews
    parsley
    cayenne pepper

    more ideas to contemplate combining with that: egg (whole), chicken, nutmeg

    very classic recipe, can probably draw from inspiration from many known recipe sources, but caynne / cashew might be a key combo 

    for spices I'm also contemplating adding ginger powder or cinnamon
        I also see a recipe that uses a combination of cayenne / cinnamon / turmeric / crushed cloves
        we can consider adding turmeric - 1 teaspoon later on. for now let's just keep it simple. 
        it also uses chickpeas - we can consider trying adding that at some point


    so let's try the following amounts: 
        2 cups of couscous (I'm using the near east chicken kind for the first attempt)
        1/2 of a lemons juice (we can go up to 3/4ths if it needs more lemon)
        zucchini - 1-2, just try to eyeball it - chopped into small cubes 
        cashews - about 15 of them, cut up somehow 
        parsley - dried 1 tablespoon? 
        cayenne pepper - 1/8th teaspoon 
        cinnamon - 1/2 teaspoon
        garlic - 2 cloves

        and it seems like we're going to add the spices to the couscous somehow? not sure how
            so I think we're just gonna mix olive oil with the spices and toast them 45-60 seconds, then add in the broth and bring it to a boil
            we'll see how this goes
            kind of similar to what he does here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EsinRf3nMU8
                he's using cilantro cumin instead of cayenne parsley lemon but it's a similar idea 

            when do we add the lemon juice? at the end it looks like 

        for cooking the zucchini / garlic - the real question here is what spices to use. 
            we could just use the same spices as before.
                could also add in some ginger powder and crushed clove, the way he does... 
                maybe look up some zucchini saute recipes? 

            for now I think I'll just go with a mix of ginger powder + crushed clove + the other spices I used
                and notably I'm not adding onion... 

            


Ovo-Vegetarian Couscous: 
2)  core ingredients: 
    egg (whole, like the guy in the video did - just dropped it in there)
    grated carrot
    pistachios
    walnuts
    black pepper

    more ideas to contemplate: chives, olives (green), sliced green bean, garlic

    I think the idea is instead of meat we have egg / pistachio / walnut


Aromaic Couscous:
3)  core ingredients: 
    caramelized onions (white)
    pistachios
    green onions
    feta
    cinnamon

    more ideas to contemplate: cilantro, egg (whole), garlic, parsley, salt

    good combination of aromaics


Tomato Salad Couscous:
4)  core ingredients: 
    tomato (cut up)
    olives (black)
    almonds
    nutmeg

    more ideas to contemplate: pine nuts, zucchini, grated carrot, ginger powder

    reminds me of that tomato salad I made once which had pine nuts / zucchini in it. but I like that it doesn't have onion


Walnut Riasin Couscous:
5)  core ingredients: 
    chives
    walnuts
    cilantro
    raisins
    turmeric

    more ideas to contemplate: caramelized onions (white), parmesean, mushrooms, cumin


Nutty Onion/Pepper Couscous
6)  core ingredients: 
    green onions
    almonds
    pumpkin seeds
    nutmeg

    more ideas to contemplate: red pepper, caramelized onions, turmeric


Saffron Couscous
7) core ingredients: 
    dried cranberries
    olives (black)
    green onions
    garlic
    golden saffron

    more ideas to contemplate: egg, red pepper, pistachios, tomato (cut up)




_______________________
Noteworthy Recipes: 
    Lemon Couscous: 
        https://www.allrecipes.com/recipe/242232/lemon-couscous/
        
    1 cup chicken broth

    2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice

    1 tablespoon lemon zest

    1 tablespoon unsalted butter 

    ¼ teaspoon salt

    ⅔ cup couscous

    1 (2 ounce) jar sliced pimentos, drained

    2 tablespoons toasted pine nuts

    2 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley
    
    Directions
    Combine chicken broth, lemon juice, lemon zest, butter, and salt together in a saucepan; bring to a boil. Stir in couscous until completely coated. Cover the saucepan, remove from heat, and let couscous soak in hot liquid until liquid is mostly absorbed, about 5 minutes.

    Fluff couscous with a fork. Stir in pimentos, pine nuts, and parsley.

Acord Squash stuffed with Isreali Couscous: https://www.allrecipes.com/recipe/279846/vegan-acorn-squash-stuffed-with-israeli-couscous/
    2 medium acorn squash, halved and seeded

    1 ⅔ cups water

    1 tablespoon vegetable soup base

    1 ¾ cups Israeli couscous (such as Osem®)

    2 cloves garlic, minced

    2 tablespoons olive oil

    salt and ground black pepper to taste

    5 baby portobello mushrooms, or more to taste, thinly sliced

    1 leek, thinly sliced

    ½ red bell pepper, finely chopped

    2 tablespoons olive oil

    Directions
    Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C). Grease a baking sheet.

    Place squash, cut-sides down, on the prepared baking sheet.

    Bake in the preheated oven until squash is soft to the touch, about 30 minutes.

    While the squash is baking, bring water and bouillon to a boil over medium-high heat. Add couscous and garlic, cover, and lower to a simmer. Cook until water has been absorbed, 8 to 10 minutes.

    Meanwhile, heat oil in a skillet over medium-high heat. Add mushrooms, leek, and bell pepper; saute until tender, about 5 minutes. Add couscous and mix to combine.

    Remove squash from the oven and stuff with the couscous-veggie mixture.

    Cook's Notes:
    If using a couscous other than Osem(R), follow the directions for 2 cups of cooked couscous.

    You may use chicken soup base, or add some grated mozzarella cheese to the recipe, or sweet sausage, which will turn this recipe to a non-vegan food.

Versatile Vegetable Couscous https://www.allrecipes.com/recipe/219722/vegetable-curry-couscous/: 
    1 teaspoon vegetable oil

    ½ small onion, chopped

    1 small leek, cleaned and thinly sliced

    1 stalk celery, thinly sliced

    ½ red bell pepper, chopped

    3 cloves garlic, minced

    1 ½ cups chicken stock

    1 carrot, grated

    2 tomatoes - peeled, seeded and chopped

    ½ cup couscous

    ¼ cup golden raisins

    ¼ cup dried currants

    1 teaspoon curry powder, or to taste

    1 pinch ground turmeric, or to taste

    salt and ground black pepper to taste

    2 tablespoons sliced almonds

    Add to
    Walmart retailer logo
    cart
    Directions
    Place vegetable oil in a saucepan over medium heat, and cook and stir the onion, leek, celery, red bell pepper, and garlic until the onion is translucent, about 5 minutes.

    Pour in the chicken stock, bring to a boil, and stir in the carrot, tomatoes, couscous, raisins, and currants. Season with curry powder, turmeric, salt, and black pepper; bring the mixture back to a boil. Reduce heat to low, cover the pan, and allow to cook for 5 minutes.

    Remove from heat. Let the couscous stand covered for 5 minutes, and fluff with a fork. Sprinkle with sliced almonds.

    Cook's Notes
    Please add curry in half-teaspoon increments to achieve desired flavor and heat. Most couscous will cook in five minutes' time. I also make this using quinoa on occasion.

Butternut Squash and Beats Couscous https://www.allrecipes.com/recipe/278500/couscous-with-roasted-butternut-squash-and-beets/: 
    1 medium butternut squash, peeled and cubed

    2 medium beets, peeled and cubed

    ½ medium sweet onion, sliced

    ½ cup chopped raw almonds

    3 tablespoons olive oil, or to taste

    ½ teaspoon garlic powder, or to taste

    ½ teaspoon onion powder, or to taste

    ½ teaspoon salt, or to taste

    1 ½ cups water

    1 cube vegetable bouillon

    1 cup couscous

    1 (4 ounce) package crumbled feta cheese

    ¼ cup dried cranberries

    ¼ cup chopped fresh parsley


    Combine butternut squash, beets, onion, and almonds in a bowl. Drizzle with olive oil and toss until well combined. Season with garlic powder, onion powder, and salt; mix to combine. Spread out in a single layer on the baking sheet.

    Roast in the preheated oven until tender, about 30 minutes.

    Meanwhile, bring water and bouillon to a boil in a saucepan; remove from heat and stir in couscous. Cover saucepan and let stand until water is absorbed completely, about 10 minutes. Fluff couscous with a fork.

    Combine roasted vegetables, couscous, feta cheese, cranberries, and parsley in a bowl; mix well.

    Tips
    Cook's Notes:

    I like to use fancy cheese like Wensleydale with cranberries for this dish, but any strong cheese of your choice works instead of the feta.

    You can use 2 tablespoons dried parsley instead of fresh parsley.

    You can use chicken stock instead of vegetable stock.


Vegetarian Stew with Couscous https://www.allrecipes.com/recipe/282934/hearty-vegetarian-stew-with-couscous/: 
    1 tablespoon olive oil

    1 medium onion, chopped

    4 cloves garlic, minced

    4 medium potatoes, peeled and cut into 2-inch pieces

    1 pound butternut squash - peeled, seeded, and cut into 2-inch cubes

    1 (15 ounce) can garbanzo beans, drained

    1 (14.5 ounce) can diced tomatoes, undrained

    2 cups vegetable broth

    2 teaspoons ground cumin

    2 teaspoons ground coriander

    2 teaspoons grated lime zest

    1 ¾ cups water

    1 (10 ounce) package dry couscous

    salt to taste

    1 tablespoon salted butter

    6 tablespoons chopped fresh cilantro, divided

    6 tablespoons chopped fresh mint, divided

    6 tablespoons plain yogurt

    6 lime wedges

    Directions
    Heat olive oil in a large saucepan over medium-high heat. Cook onion and garlic in the hot oil until softened, about 5 minutes. Add potatoes, squash, beans, tomatoes with juice, vegetable broth, cumin, and coriander; bring to a boil. Reduce heat and simmer until squash and potatoes are soft enough to eat, 30 to 50 minutes.

    Ten minutes before the stew is finished cooking, bring 1 3/4 cups water to a boil in a saucepan. Stir in couscous; cover, and remove from the heat. Let stand for 5 minutes, then season with salt and stir in butter.

    Remove stew from the heat and stir in lime zest, 1/2 of the cilantro, and 1/2 of the mint.

    Serve stew next to couscous on a plate with a tablespoon of yogurt. Sprinkle with remaining cilantro and mint and serve with a lime wedge.

    Cook's Notes:
    This recipe goes really well with merguez sausages or grilled fish and meat. You can add the juice from the baked meat to the couscous instead of butter.

    If you'd like to speed up the first step, cook the potatoes and squash separately in water for 5 to 8 minutes. Drain them before adding them to the pot.