Tiered Cooking Categories for a Well-Rounded Chef
1. Meal Types
    Breakfast & Brunch
    Lunch & Light Meals (sandwiches, wraps, grain bowls, salads)
    Dinner Classics (main courses - i.e. meat, fish, veetarian, side dishes)
    Desserts & Sweets (cakes, pies, tarts, custards, puddings, ice cream)
    Snacks & Appetizers (dips, i.e. guacamole, spreads, finger foods) 
    Beverages (hot, cold, smoothies, juices, tea, mocktails)

2. Core Techniques

    Soups & Stews (broths, cleaer soups, cream soups, hearty stews, chowders)
    Stir-Fries & Quick Sautés (asian stir fries, mediterranean sautes)
    Casseroles & Bakes (pasta bakes, vegetable gratins)
    Grilling & Roasting (meats, vegetables)
    Braising & Slow Cooking (short ribs, pot roast)
    Frying (shallow i.e. cutlets, deep i.e. doughnuts, fritters)
    Poaching & Steaming (fish, eggs, dumplings) 

3. Ingredient-Based

    Vegetable Dishes (roasted, steamed, suateed, stuffed vegetables)
    Grains & Legumes (rice i.e. pilaf / risotto, quinoa, farro, oats, beans, lentils)
    Pasta & Noodles (fresh pasta, asian noodles) 
    Breads & Baked Goods (yeast breads, quick breads, laminated doughs) 
    Egg & Dairy Dishes (custards, cheese-based dishes)
    Meats
        Beef (steaks, braises) 
        Pork (roasts, chops)
        Poultry (roast chicken, confit)
    Seafood
        Fish (fillets)
        Shellfish (shrimp, mussels, oysters) 

4. Flavor Builders

    Sauces & Condiments
        - Mother sauces (Bechamel, Veloute, Hollandaise - classic french sauces)
        - Vinaigrettes 
        - Salsas & Chutneys 
    Dressings & Marinades
    Stocks & Broths (Vegetable, Chicken, Beef) 


5. Global Cuisines (Rotate more in as you progress for cultural depth)

    Italian (pasta, risotto, tiramisu, spaghetti, pizza, etc.) 
    French (souffle, coq au vin) 
    Mexican (tacos, enchiladas, mole) 
    Indian (curries, naan)
    Chinese (dumplings, stir-fries)
    Japanese (ramen, sushi) 
    Middle Eastern (hummus, kebabs) 
    Mediterranean (greek salads, mezze) 
    
