

- I want you to come up with a master recipe based on the example recipe I've included. It should be the best recipe you can possibly produce. Use my provided recipe as a starting point, but you don't have to follow it too precisely if you see ways to include it. Look for ways to improve it. Diverge from it as much as you find necessary to achieve mastery (which could be anywhere from alot to not at all). I want you to draw on your own culinary understanding, and information from many top sources, to come up with the best version of this recipe you can. You can also make additions or change the recipe if you feel that will improve it. Above all, what I care about is taste, and I don't care that much about presentation. I am a home chef, so bear that in mind. I want you to give clear instructions for how to produce the recipe. I want temperatures listed in Fahrenheit. I want the correct amounts of each ingredient included. And I want you to give me all the pertinent information on technique which I would need to reproduce the recipe. 

- I want you to come up with a master recipe of <recipe_name>. This must be a master recipe, so it should be the best recipe you can possibly produce. I want you to draw on your own culinary understanding, and information from many top sources, to come up with the best version of this recipe you can. You can also make additions or change the recipe if you feel that will improve it. Above all, what I care about is taste, and I don't care that much about presentation. I am a home chef, so bear that in mind. I want you to give clear instructions for how to produce the recipe. I want temperatures listed in Fahrenheit. I want the correct amounts of each ingredient included. And I want you to give me all the pertinent information on technique which I would need to reproduce the recipe. 

- I want you to list off 5-10 of the best iterations, versions, or variations of the following recipe: <recipe_name>. They should be the best ideas you can possibly come up with. My goal is to choose one of them, and then perfect it into a master recipe later on. I care about taste above all else. I do not especially care about presentation. Draw on your own culinary understanding, and top sources, and come up with the list. 
