
- part of the logic for opening up your kingside is a judgement call that 
  a) you have more pieces on the kingside 
  b) your attack is fast enough 

- when you develop think about ways to prevent the opponents development

- it's important to evaluate the value of pieces correctly. 
  look at how many squares the piece controls, what it's doing and what its potential is
  although there are occasionally times when pieces are terrible, but when it opens up it will be very good. 
    keep that in mind - you want to think in the long run too 

- in the opening he considers carefully whether to close or open the center.
  he bases this decision at least in part on comparing his development with his opponents 
  he points out that when you're ahead in development you want to open the center to most capitalize on that 
  on the flipside if you're a bit behind in development closing the center is a good thing for you 

  but generally you should maintain the tension unless there's a clear reason to open or close the center, 
    you dont always want to resolve the tension too early 

  in another example the opponent plays h6 in an e4 opening and he opens the center instinctively 

  later on, in an endgame, he gets in a position where his pieces are more active and he also opens it up for that reason. 
  when your pieces are more active and the position is open they can exert themselves more and maximize their advantage 

  but at another time... he closed the center because he was attacking on the kingside. so that makes sense 

- while playing these e4 opening positions he often applies logic focusing very heavily on the speed of development 

- he talks about how you can transform one type of advantage into another, and how this is important to do at various moments. 
  at one point he had a pawn advantage, but he sacrificed it to gain initiative, he didn't hold onto the pawn. he transformed his advantage

- he talks about how, when playing against an IQP, you often want to trade down the pieces
  likewise if you have an IQP you want to keep the pieces on 
  also talks about the importance of blockading the IQP vs pushing it forward 
  but this is a bit of an oversimplification, there are alot of intricacies to IQP positions

- he's very aware of potential outposts 

- his opponent weakened the darksquares around his king, and they traded off their darksquare bishops. 
  at this point he established control over a darksquare outpost with one of his pawns and worked to plant a knight there. 

- he often has a particular logical goal in mind, like an outpost, and the moves then follow in a way that reinforces that plan 

- he mentions a common a phrase "do not rush in the endgame" 

- generally he's very aware of weak squares when forming his plans 
  he also induces weak squares
  when an opponent makes a move he's also very aware of what weaknesses it creates

- in the endgame he says piece activity is very crucial 
  pawns that can become passed pawns are also very important to consider 

- whenever he trades he's very carefully considering how to trade on his own terms 

- in queen endgames it's often good to centralize the queen

_____________________________________

he prioritizes opening up the board alot, especially when he has initiative 
  although there was another scenario where he was attacking on the kingside, and he kept the center closed. so it depends. 

2 interesting ideas when you're thinking about a move to play: 
  1) is it better if played in a different order 
  2) are you playing the most ambitious move 


there was an interesting point where he could have chosen to move the knight to 2 different squares, and couldn't make up his mind,
  so he intentionally waited before moving the knight, and moved another piece instead. 
  so flexibility / waiting to react to his opponents moves


in general, pawn structure being ruined is important in 2 scenarios: 
  1) the king is close to the pawns 
  2) you're close to an endgame 

  otherwise it is some factor but it's not something to fret about very much 


try to resist trading down and releasing tension when you don't need to 


take the advice "take toward the center" with a grain of salt, it's one of the principles which has many exceptions


he points out that when the opponent has violated opening principles it gives you more liberty to violate them as well, if you wish 
  i.e. make a move but delay development or castling, etc. 


he goes through a detailed analysis of how to play for an outpost. but he notices the outpost very early. 
  he also talks about how pieces that defend outposts can be traded off. 
  an outpost can define the entire game if it's significant enough 

  especially be careful of weak squares in the center of the board that can be occupied by knights 
    knights are an ideal piece to occupy key squares in many scenarios 


comparison with other openings or lines is often a good way to make sense of positions 

at one point he fiancettos Bb7, and points out the other bishop Bd3 is also pointing at the kingside - both bishops are next to one another. 
  he says this makes them stronger, and to somewhat prefer bishops together

He explains that you don't want to overcommit pawns to occupying the center, since they can be undermined. 
  There's a certain balance - you want to occupy the center but then back up the pawns with pieces so that you can maintain your control. 
  Of course it all depends on the opening. 


at one point black played a triangle structure against Nc3/d4/e4 - c6/d5/e6. 
  Danya explained that we dont want to play e5 here. One reason is we want to open the board, not close it. 
  When your opponent plays bad moves it's better to try to open the position, since that maximizes the impact of the bad moves. 
  Another reason is the d4 pawn can be undermined but that's obvious. 

Nimzowitsch thought that instead of taking back and occupying weak squares with pawns, you want to reserve the weak square for pieces. 
  there are cases where this isn't true, but this is quite a firm rule according to Danya. 

- he's very deliberate and conscious about attacking hooks. 
  he realizes if his opponent has changed his kingside pawn structure and plays to that specifically

- a successful attack depends on 2 things: 
  1) the presence of enough pieces - you need a certain amount of firepower involved
  2) weaknesses in the area where your opponents king is 

  so a single queen can conduct an attack if the opponents king is weak and undefended 
  on the other hand, you can have 5 pieces in the attack, but if the opponent also has 5 pieces there the attack may be defended

  So using these principles you can rule out attacks with very minimal calculation.

- piece activity in the endgame is incredibly important, sometimes even more important than material. 

there's a common principle to apply when undermining a pawn chain: 
    first attack the base and undermine support for the tip, then afterwards attack the tip 

    
he talks about the idea of carving out a good square for a piece
  the scenario is the opponent has a square covering a square, and you want to put a piece on the square 
    so you use one of your own pawns to undermine or take in a way that vacates the square 

In one game he'd traded off his enemies LSB, and he still had is own. 
  He knew he could exploit the enemy kings light squares, so he slowly formed a queen / LSB battery and ultimately checkmated the enemy


the queen and the knight are the strongest attacking combo in chess, he says. 
  when they combine near the enemy king it is devestating. 

when attacking don't get too focused on mating and forget about just grabbing simple material, like a pawn, if it's the best available

loss of tempo isn't as important in closed positions. 
  this is notable for black if you want to make defensive maneuvers, 
  and notable for white if you want to capitalize on being up in tempo (i.e. avoid closing the position)


there was a time he pushed f4 in the opening, and his rationale for it was the opponent had developed slowly (they were playing the pirc) 
  seems somewhat obvious but it's interesting to make the connection between f4 and initiative

he points out that pawn weaknesses are especially disasterous when they occur on semi-open files. 
  same is true if there are bishops which can attack the weaknesses, of course 

whenever a pawn moves immediately ask yourself what weak squares or weaknesses have been left behind 
  do the same when considering sacrifices, and when he moves pieces
  and do the same when you move pawns / pieces 

whenever you have a situation where a piece defends another piece - he calls this a type 2 defended piece 
  in these situations you should look for whether the piece doing the defense can be overloaded 
  take conscious note of type 2 defended pieces and look out for potential overloading tactics 

so type 1 are pieces not defended by anything. type 2 are pieces defended by one o ther piece. 
  type 3 are pieces defended by a pawn, or by multiple pieces. 
  noticing all the type 2 pieces helps you reason about the tactics in the position.
  Very cool way of thinking he's come up with 
  And with a type 2 piece an important question to ask is if you can dislodge the defender somehow 

when deciding to trade he recognizes what his opponents strongest piece was, and based his decision to trade on that. 
  so he traded off his opponents strongest piece in this scenario 
  he was in trouble so he had to trade, but he was white so it may not be obvious 

if a move fails for a tactical reasons, be aware that the reason could change as the game goes on. 
  so try to remain aware of the threats and reassess them as the game goes on 

there was an interesting moment in the game, where the opponent had his knight on a forward square. 
  We had a backward knight which could have traded it off. But that backward knight could also route to an outpost (no pawns could boot it from). 
  and infact, there was no bishop of that outposts color either, so it was an eternal knight. 
  he chose to avoid the trade and take the time to route the bishop. 
  it was a mostly closed center so maybe that was why he felt he had more time, too. 
  later he booted the enemy knight with a pawn. 

he says to track & catalogue all your opponents weaknesses like a librarian. interesting idea

he recommends having some way of "collecting tactical themes". Like you write down or keep some record of the noteworthy tactic. 
  over time you'll build up all these tactics 

he also disagrees with the common wisdom to "put pawns on opposite color as your bishop", because there are many exceptions. 

but what he does believe in is fixing your opponents pawns on the same color complex as your bishop. And that makes sense. 

studying your mating patterns is also good. there are names to them. you should know them. 

he talks about this idea of a healthy waiting move. It's where you play a move that doesn't create any vulnerabilities, that's just generally good, 
  waiting for the opponent to make his next move and reveal his plan... to which you can respond. 

when considering weaknesses (your own and the opponents) you should assess whether it is exploitable. Sometimes weaknesses just aren't exploitable. 
  For example, a backwards c pawn on a file that isn't open and won't open, and also can't be attacked by pieces. 
  pushing g6 in front of the king after your opponent has traded off his bishop that could exploit those squares 
  a square that you're weakening, but it's just inaccessible. a piece can't get to it in any timely manner. 

  this kind of thinking allows you to reason about weak squares in a deeper way. 
    for example, you may weaken a square but have a piece guarding it, 
      and if the opponent only has 1 piece which could exploit and you could just trade it off... it may not be a problem. 


a lead in development is a dynamic advantage. it exists for the moment, but if the opponent can catch up in development...   dissipates.
  if there aren't enough targets or the king isn't weak enough the development advantage dissipates. 

  material advantages are more static and long term. 

consider looking more at annotated games. there are many games collections nowdays which you can hunt down. 
  live commentary is also good.
  analyzing with an engine and being able to learn from that analysis is a difficult task but you can do that too. 

there was an interesting moment where, during some pawn trades, he didn't take back with his bishop (though it looked natural to do so). 
  instead he took back with a pawn, which seemed slightly suboptimal in the short term. however, it kept the bishop on a desired diagonal. 
  it was a diagonal where he could form a battery. he was prioritizing piece activity, essentially. 

it's important to ask the Sam Shankland question to not make false assumptions. Also to work on tactics. 
  this allows you to play at a higher level. 
  you cant always ask this question, but asking it in critical positions is good. 


