he shows a game with a closed position where it looks like progress isn't possible. 
    but the white player pokes around, creating small weaknesses.
    "chess is a game of the double attack" 

shows a game emphasizing the importance of h4 and the queen / bishop battery looking at h7
    this game featured an earlier h4. the earlier h4 usually leads to a faster attack, apparently 

he showed another game with a later h4. 
    the queen was still positioned along the same diagonal, but there were also rook lifts and knights getting involved. 
    the idea here was to show the idea of transferring all pieces into the attack. 
        and this was a slower buildup to an attack with more pieces.
    count the number of pieces in the attack. include your opponents king as a piece. if you outnumber them that's a good sign. 

two rules of attack: attack the weakest point and bring more pieces to the attack

he shows a game with a unique plan by botvinnik in it. 
    but the broader principle was... we don't invent plans. we just study classics, and mine for / understand those ideas of the past. 
    also... he emphasizes the importance of playing many different positions. 
        he criticizes players that just have 1 move or a set move order. 
        because the broad understanding of the position is developed by playing many different moves. this makes you flexible. 
            not only many different moves within an opening, but many different openings, and probably openings of the same pawn structure as well.

he says there are two kinds of plans. 
    one kind of plan follows from the pawn structure. these are typical plans, and you can know them. 
    the other plans are analytical plans. these arise from calculations in the position 
        in this regard there are known attack combinations you can use in certain micro-positions
    to avoid reinventing the wheel for the typical plans you need to study alot of grandmaster / classical games.
        note all the different plans. 

    he also draws parallels between two different games. the pawn structure on the kingside was the same, 
        but the pawn structure on the queenside was slightly different.
        however, the same plans for attacking the kingside applied in both games. 
            so in a way it's a micro-position and its associated pattern that we're looking for

he shows the principle of trading off a bishop and putting pawns on the color of your missing bishop


he shows how to fight for the d4/d5 square in the sicilian. 
    to secure the square he captures or threatens to capture his opponents pieces that are defending the square.
        thus he can get more power in the position than just those pieces directly eyeing the square 

he shows an interesting game where kasparav sacrificed a rook for a bishop, and a knight took back. 
    the resulting pawn position left the knight locked out of the game. so this is a positional sacrifice of the exchange.

    these kinds of maneuvers assume you can take the initiative and do something with it, since if given time the opponent will stabilize
        he says furthermore that chess is all about time. 

    then he shows a second game where another grandmaster sacrifices the exchange in a similar position. 
        but here it was for a different reason - not to lock out the knight, but to create a passed pawn and push it
        
        based on the similarity he postulates that GM must have seen the kasparov game

    he says that the difference between a GM and an IM is a GM knows more of these patterns. 

        he says that patterns are analytical plans. this is knowledge that is deeply stored, and it can be learned.
        in contrast, intuition and natural ability relate to things such as your sense of time, handling critical moments


he says that the awareness of tactics is behind so many moves at the top level 
    tactics are implicitly used to stop the enemies plans and develop your plans 


now he shows a typical semi-slav pawn structure where the player wants to play c6-c5 to unleash a bishop.
    he shows a game where the player formed a Qe2/Bd3 battery toward the queenside, then played a4. 
        this prevented c5 from being played, because the pawn had to stay on c3 to defend the other pawns. 
        he also couldn't take a4 because of the battery and that it would leave his pawns isolated

        so the point is a4 with a queen / bishop battery is a way of preventing c6-c5 from being played
            and in some positions that's critical as it releases the bishop 

    he says this is an example of how it's very powerful to restrict and limit the power of your opponents pieces. 


he says as a rule attacking pieces are faster than defensive ones. 
    a single piece can create threats in multiple places that a single piece can't defend
    so this goes back to chess being a game of double attack 

    he says, as a rule, if you're attacking something and the opponent is defending it, and you can't break through, go create weaknesses
        knowing this principle allows you to quickly know what to do in these brickwall situations
            in the game he was stalemated attacking a3, so he played h4 on the flank on the other side of the board
            this is an interesting basis for the concept of counterplay 
    
he sets up a very classical queens gambit pawn symmetrical structure w/ e3 d4 c4 b3, & likewise for black 
    also, he played Nd2 here instead of Nc3
    so then he discusses where to place the rooks. 

    the C and D file is the more classical option. but there are other options. he actually prefers rooks on D and F here. 
        rooks on D and F can support the F pawn push - so if you play Ne5 / f4 the rook is on the F file 
            this is a more aggressive setup - you can do a rooklift here too 
        he says the rook on C often ends up behind a pawn that already has strong support from Nd2 and Bd3
            this may be useful information in some trompowsky positions
        
    after Ne5 Ncxe5 dxe5 (a typical trade after you jump your knight in) your pawn pressures Nf6, forcing the knight to move. 
        you want to follow this up with f4 
        this is another typical trompowsky maneuver. 

        he says black retreating Nf6 to Nd7 is a mistake here, since you just play f4 and blockade the center / attack the kingside 
            so he says instead black should jump in with Ne4, with a trade opening up the position. 
            but how do you respond to Ne4? 
                since Bd3 is blocked out it seems natural to take with the bishop and rotate the knight to the kingside for an attack. 
                    but he says black can equalize the game by attacking the center / flank, it takes a long time to rotate the knight 
                so he actually likes playing cxd5 exd5 Nxe4 dxe4 Bc4 
                    basically trading and opening up c4 for your bishop / removing, e5 which exposes the f6 pawn, and eyeing the kingside
                    essentially your trade weakened the kingside, 
                        and the center was still blockaded by the black pawn on e4 after the trade  

            so consider the effect of trades and whether they're beneficial to your attack 
        
            more broadly, this is a common plan he learned from a great player. 
                all throughout he's looking at a pro or classical game then using it in his games.
                it's an interesting approach to forming plans. 


at one point he's attacking... and the opponent does an exchange sacrifice to relieve the pressure. 
    so then he just changes his plan and backs off, and consolidates. 
    I guess it's obvious but the point is that you have to be flexible in your plans. 


he says that when you have more space - like white in the QGD, modern - you aren't as pressed for time either. 
    so you're more free to come up with different plans. space and time are related, then. 

he says that, contrary to typical teachings, you can give up the bishop pair for a knight if you have control over the central squares. 
    the trade even resulted in doubled pawns, opening up the middle. 
    in this game white had a space advantage
    it was interesting because he didn't control the center with pawns, the position opened up, 
        but he actually just had a huge initiative with his pieces in the center, and exerted control over it that way. 
        so you could say the trade of the bishop pair and the doubled pawn gave him initiative and he controlled the center that way

    the game further went in to show that white maintained the advantage by continually applying pressure. 
        he says that chess is timing. if given the time black will disentangle and equalize. 
        the seizing of the initiative is compensation for the doubled pawn and the bishop pair 

    he shows another game where white traded off his bishop for a knight, and even though the lightsquares looked very weak... 
        the enemy lightsquare bishop couldn't manage to attack them, and eventually got traded off. 
        he says that there are these situations where purported weaknesses aren't real weaknesses 
            due to the fact they just can't be exploited

        then he says that dynamic chess is better than static chess. seizing the initiative. chess is all timing. 
            so... is there time for the weakness to be exploited?
                and does the bishop for knight exchange instead give you the initiative, which is the critical advantage?
                that's the question he's getting at. 


he says when analyzing a game don't stop watching it once one side gets a significant advantage
    because technique in finishing off a game is critical to develop. 
    many young players he says don't have good technique and can't close out a game 

in bishop vs knight - think of a bishop as a cannon - it's a long range attacking piece. 
    but think of a knight as a frog - it's adept at hitting multiple things at once, and jumping in and around. 

he says that top players are always thinking about creating weaknesses, attacking in multiple places. 

now he shows a second game with doubled pawns. 
    he says that contrary to conventional wisdom, in many cases doubled pawns are supporting an important square and open important files. 

he also says an ability of great players is to take with their pawns and change the pawn structure at the right time. 

he had a strong square on e5 for his knight, but he didn't move it there because it could have been taken by the enemy knight. 
    however, he created threats on the other side of the board, then waited until the enemy knight had to move, then moved his knight there. 
    point is sometimes you don't take the important squares immediately because eventually the opponent will have to give up defending them

he says knowing how a pawn structure will change, and how you must change your plans accordingly, is a mark of a player with very deep insight 

he shows two games against a dutch stonewall structure. in both games he attacks on one side of the board, then shifts the attack to the other side. 
    he also opens the g file in these games by trading the queenside bishop on f4, doubling the pawns there. 
        this grips the center, and he attacks on the g file. 
        in one game he actually started the attack on the queenside, then shifted to the g file. 
            in the other he attacked the g file first, then the queenside. 
        so basically his idea of attacking both sides is the same, but he was choosing the right side to attack first based on the situation.

        also it's an example of attacking based on the pawn structure 

the analytical plans are derived from a combination of pieces and pawn structure, whereas typical plans are associated with just the pawn structure. 
    every structure has its own typical plan - sometimes 1, sometimes 2 or 3. 
    one of the essential ways of studying the middlegame is studying these pawn structures and their typical plans. 



sacrifice of the central pawn, part 1




